# Read : 18

## Cryptography

- **Cryptography**, or **cryptology** is the practice and study of techniques for secure communication in the presence of third parties called **adversaries**.

- More generally, cryptography is about constructing and analyzing protocols that prevent third parties or the public from reading private messages; various aspects in **information security** such as **data confidentiality**, **data integrity**, **authentication**, and **non-repudiation** are central to modern cryptography.

### Encryption

- In cryptography, **encryption** is the process of encoding information.

- This process converts the original representation of the information, known as **plaintext**, into an alternative form known as **ciphertext**.

- Ideally, only authorized parties can decipher a ciphertext back to plaintext and access the original information.

- Encryption does not itself prevent interference but denies the intelligible content to a would-be interceptor. 

- For technical reasons, an encryption scheme usually uses a **pseudo-random** encryption key generated by an algorithm.

### Decryption

- The conversion of encrypted data into its original form is called Decryption.

- It is generally a reverse process of encryption.

- It decodes the encrypted information so that an authorized user can only decrypt the data because decryption requires a secret key or password.

### Hacking

- A security hacker is someone who explores methods for breaching defenses and exploiting weaknesses in a computer system or network.

- Hackers may be motivated by a multitude of reasons, such as profit, protest, information gathering, challenge, recreation, or evaluation of a system weaknesses to assist in formulating defenses against potential hackers.

- The subculture that has evolved around hackers is often referred to as the "computer underground."

- Longstanding controversy surrounds the meaning of the term "hacker".

##### [Go Back](code_401_reading_notes.md)